---
title: "January 2023 Sprint"
date: 2022-12-31
---

Project: 6 Months Software Engineer
Sprint: JAN 2023
Person: @ezekielmiles

Hey! I'm currently writing this on the 31st December 2022 at 6:15PM. I just got done with some Le Wagon challenges on Active Record so I'm feeling pumped! Got stuck 45mins on a problem because of my file naming conventions (used hyphens instead of underscores, fuck).

This sprint planning is lightly inspired by this link: https://github.com/Nirvikalpa108/Learning/wiki. I say lightly because I only browsed the link for like 2mins and thought it was a good idea to do some rough goal setting for learning. Thank you Amina for the inspiration!

## Sprint Things

Here, I'm going to be mixing SYSTEMS and GOALS so I don't get lost along the way. If I am good on systems (learn coding every day for 2 hours)... that won't help me too much as well. But if I have goals to work on, while having the systems in place that will be most ideal. I'll mention the GOALS first below

### Goals

#### Le Wagon In-Person Bootcamp Syllabus

Here are the things that I'm scheduled to learn for the month of January (planned by the school). I aim to master all these things and get a strong foundations on all these. If I run into issues where I don't know 5% of it. I will get to the bottom of it because I have to LEARN LIKE MY CAREER DEPENDS ON IT (which it will).

*For context, we've already covered:*

- Programming Basics
- Flows, Conditionals & Arrays
- Iterators and Blocks
- Hash and Symbols
- REGEX
- Parsing
- OOP
- Schema Design, CRUD with SQL
- Active Record Basics, Associations and Validations

*In January, I will learn:*

- HTML/CSS
- CSS Components
- Bootstrap & Layouts
- JavaScript basics
- DOM & Events
- HTTP & AJAX

#### The Odin Project Online Bootcamp Syllabus

TOP is an awesome resource, just wanna start by saying that. Okay so I'm doing with the first portion of TOP up till the JavaScript portions. (Just got done with CSS/HTML)

Which is perfect because I'm going into Le Wagon CSS/HTML next week!

*So for The Odin Project (January), I aim to get these sections of the course done:*

- JavaScript Basics
- The Back End 
< end of Foundations >
- Begin Ruby on Rails Path
- complete Ruby Section

#### Finder's Football

This will be a project that I aim to work on to apply all the things I have learnt on Le Wagon and The Odin Project. Hopefully this will be the end-bootcamp project that I have to present but I can't be too sure. It might turn out to be more complex than it seems, but I am confident on where this will go. It's up to the MENTAL.

### Systems

*Monday*
- 2 hours of TOP in the day
- 3 hours of Le Wagon at night 

*Tuesday*
- 2 hours of TOP in the day
- 2 hours of TOP in the night

*Wednesday*
- 2 hours of TOP in the day
- 3 hours of Le Wagon at night 

*Thursday*
- 2 hours of TOP in the day
- 2 hours of TOP in the night

*Friday*
- 2 hours of TOP in the day
- 2 hours of TOP in the night

*Saturday*
- Full day of coding in-person class (8 hours)

#### *Total Number of Coding/Studying Hours A Week* adds up to...

22hours (at home) and 8 hours (in-person) so 30. Let's see if 30 hours of intense work and studying will bring me to where I wanna get to!

#### My 6 Month Coding Goals are...

- by MAR 2023: Get hired as a SWE Intern (salary doesn't matter)
- by JUN 2023: Get hired as a SWE (fully paid 90K USD)

---------------------------------

Alright that was fun to type out. It feels nice to have a framework to work with. Okay it's time to go prepare for the NYE party. 

See you!

Mental monster,
@ezekielmiles

31st December 2022, 6:40PM
