---
title: "06 February"
date: 2023-02-06
---

Hello there, it's been real busy... Chinese New Year is super packed and I lost the battle, I was supposed to stay home and code / do more self learning but I ended up going out to hang out with friends. I don't regret it though, it was great times and now i feel pumped!

So on the 28th of January Saturday, I presented my idea "SnapShare" (mentioned in the previous coding entry) and I believe I did a pretty good job presenting but... sadly the product wasn't chosen as the 4 to be worked on. A total of 16 projects were proposed so a 25% chance basically.

It was interesting though, every student had a priority list and everytime a student presented, everyone had to rank the projects. 1st being the one that they wanted to work with the most, and 16th the one that they weren't interested at all. The bootcamp's algorithm will then decide who you work with and what project you're going to be working on for the rest of the bootcamp.

Luckily, I got to work on my second choice (first being my own project LOL) which is called Uni-Fi. A personal finance product that my close friend pitched! He and his girlfriend was sold by me to join the bootcamp together so it ended off well in that sense!

Presenting SnapShare was really fun and I felt that it was definitely going to be chosen (simply because it was a easy product to start getting users) but sadly other more "niche and unique" products were chosen! 

But here's whats rly cool, I had an idea that I wanted to work on for financial consultatns and I think alot of Uni-Fi's features can be tweaked to build that FC product. I'm really excited for that and will share more thought processes and planning on here when I can. Not that anyone is reading, it's just a way for me to think clearer of what projects I'm working on.

So this week, the class is learning Ruby On Rails and we're going all in to finish up the syllabus and work on our projects! The lesson 2 days ago was interesting, we did our own prototypes on Figma, designed the lo-fi UI kits and quickly whipped up some wireframes. I enjoyed that a lot and am excited to do that for the many more tiny software products that I want to create in the near future. 

Also, I sent a cold email to a founder of a software app that I ahve been using for a while now and I got a reply back. Speaking withhim tomorrow! I love this energy. I create my own opportunities and not wait for those doors to open. Let's get it! 

I feel myself getting closer to getting a full-time software engineer gig by end of June (or create my own product by then :P).   

Peace,  
@ezekielmiles
