---
title: "16 January"
date: 2023-01-16
---

### Back from Phuket!

In the past 12 days, I spent 3-4 days going for Le Wagon classes and preparing for my Phuket trip! Went for my first diving experience and had a lot of great fun with my secondary school friends.

Now, I'm back at it! 2 days ago in the Le Wagon bootcamp, we started learning JavaScript! So it's pretty nice that I got some introduction lessons from TOP already, so it wasn't that confusing at the start. I gotta admit I love Ruby much much more since the syntax is super easy to get hold of compared to JavaScript.

That being said, I'm also enjoying myself and can see why JavaScript is going to be useful! But yes, if you're planning to learn programming... I definitely recommend Ruby!

So for today, I'm going to get the *DOM & Events* lecture done and get started on the challenges. Since probably no one is going to read this coding blog, I'll just throw my most important notes that I need to remember or refer to to write good (enough) JavaScript. Don't mind me!

### JavaScript Notes 

**1. How to CRUD an Array**

``const fruits = [];.    
fruits.push("Apple"); // Create.  
fruits[0];            // Read.   
fruits[0] = "Banana"; // Update.  
fruits.splice(0, 1);  // Delete. Remove one item at index 0.`` 

**2. Always write JavaScript variables in lowerCamelCase!**

const name = "Ezekiel Miles";  
const firstName = "Ezekiel";  
same as functions as well  

**3. Opening JavaScript on Terminal compared to Ruby**

``irb = node  
ruby filename.rb = node filename.js``

**4. How to iterate through JS Objects**

This is pretty cool! I didn't know I could do this in Ruby as well. This is the good thing about learning multiple languages!  
In JS, you can use Object.entries(object_name)  

``for (const [key, value] of Object.entries(instruments)) {  
  console.log(`${key} played the ${value}`);  
}``

Wow! The code snippet thing works in markdown. Amazing!  

**5. Converting strings to numbers & numbers to strings**
`` let num = Number(str) -> 42
let str =  String(num) -> "42"``  

There are multiple ways to do this though, but I'm just going to use the top 2. The rest of them are quite similar to Ruby so these are the 5 things that I want to pay extra attention to!

Now, I'm going to take 1.5hours to listen to the recorded lecture of **Javascript DOM & Events** before class later!

Cheers,  
**@ezekielmiles**
