---
title: "26 January"
date: 2023-01-26
---

Chinese New Year has been intense! Missed a couple of days of action at the computer but had lots of fun with family and friends. Back to the grind now! So next up on my main to-do list for this SWE6MONTH project is a PITCH that I must present for Le Wagon's bootcamp!

Here are my 3 current ideas that I am trying to decide on:

### 1. Finder's Football

**Target:**

- Referees/People who have booked pitches in Singapore but need to find teams to match / players to join game / games to referee
- Captains to find referees / players / pitches
- Players to find games to play

**Pain:**

- Referees/People who have pitches find it tough to keep inviting people to matches and scheduling their matches through whatsapp
- Players can't find teams to join (current solution is facebook groups etc)
- Captains want to find players to recruit
- Captains want a better way to organise their team's upcoming matches and invite players to their games

**Solution:**

- All in one app for referees, captains and players to organise & join game and recruit players.


### 2. ShareSnap

**Target:**

- People who go to events, travel, clique outings. Basically everyone who are in different communities, and hobbies.

**Pain:**

- Take lots of photos and videos, but in group setting only end up sending out the photos and videos that "make" the cut. But all these extra stuff are great memories as well.

**Solution:**

- Web App for everyone to upload EVERYTHING and tag people to it. Can view photos and videos later. Imagine a secondary school "album" to upload everything in ur Secondary 4 class! And we can view it even 10 years later. The way photos and stuff are build in Facebook is justtoo messy and people are not uploading their bad cuts and takes. With this app, don't miss out on a memory.

### 3. MyOwnMuseum

Target:

- Professionals who are looking to get an edge of their personal branding

Pain:

- Want to create content but can't create original content so want to use curation as a form of content creation

Solution:

- Create an easy curation site, for user to bookmark or add images,link,videos and name the site as their own to build expertise.
- Examples: ogimagegallery, marketingexamples, emptystates

After typing out these 3 ideas, I think the potential might be the biggest for the photo sharing app. Might build on that one! 2 days to the presentation!

Gotta go for now!
Happy CNY!  
@ezekielmiles
