---
title: "04 January"
date: 2023-01-04
---

Ate some beef noodles for lunch and bought a $20 shorts from Uniqlo. Got home after and coding starts!

## What I did today:

I got started on the JavaScript module on The Odin Project. Wow, this is the first time trynig to switch to a new programming language from Ruby so there is really some discomfort when trying to write JS code. Now I get why DHH said that Ruby is just easier than other languages (to write). The syntax of javascript is not too bad though, I just need some time to get used to it.

Not sure if I'll be using both languages often but let's see what happens. I still like Ruby a lot. Oh yeah, yesterday I also did some Kyu 6 katas on codewars. Writing pure ruby and trying to solve the kata is actually really fun. Gets me hyped in a very calm way, not sure how to put it haha!

Okay yes, so today I started learning JavaScript. Here are some of my notes! Might be useful for myself if I need some refreshing of memory (will 100% need them.)

## Notes 

Some quick knowledge check after reading the learning materials:
 
// "" + 1 + 0 = "10"\
// "" - 1 + 0 = -1\
// true + false = 1\ 
// 6 / "3" = 2\
// "2" * "3" = 6\
// 4 + 5 + "px" = "9px"\
// "$" + 4 + 5 = "$45"\
// "4" - 2 = 2\
// "4px" - 2 = -2 (NaN)\
// "  -9  " + 5 = "  -9  5"\
// "  -9  " - 5 = -14\
// null + 1 = 1\
// undefined + 1 = NaN\
// " \t \n" - 2 = -2\


### Name the three ways to declare a variable
- let
- const
- var 

### Which of the three variable declarations should you avoid and why?
avoid var, simply because the behavior of var is not what you would expect (thats what the notes tell me LOL)

### What rules should you follow when naming variables?
- can only use letters, digits or symbols $ and _
- first character mustnot be a digit
- must use camelCase if multiple words
- apple and APPLE are different variables
- reserved names that can't be used are let, class, return, function.
- being a constnat means the value never changes
- capital-named constants "COLOR_ORANGE" are used as aliases for "hard coded" values

### What happens when you add numbers and strings together?
they both will become one string.
for example...

let s = "my" + "string";
alert(s); // mystring

### How does the Modulo (%), or Remainder, operator work?
5%2 = 1, the result of 2 numbers nad modulo is just the remainder when the first operand on the left divides the second operand on the right.

### Explain the difference between == and ===.
== is the usual 5==5 = "true"
=== on the other hand is called STRICT equality operator (!== is called STRICT equality)
basically, they don't check the value of the operand but they check the DATA TYPE of the operand.
"5"==="6" will then be true since both operands are numbers

### When would you receive a NaN result?
it will show when math functions finally, like when you're doing ("5" * 5).. a number multiplied by a string.

### How do you increment and decrement a number?
let a = 55;
a++;
alert(a); // this will be 56 

### Explain the difference between prefixing and postfixing increment/decrement operators.
let a = 55;\

a = ++counter // this means a will be the value AFTER the increment\
a = counter++ // this means a will be the value BEFORE the increment\

if counter++ or ++counter is not assigned to any variable, it will just work as it is. basically here +1 & +1.

### What is operator precedence and how is it handled in JS?
it's the order for which operator will be executed first. It uses a precedence table. Click here to access it! [LINK](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Operator_Precedence)

### How do you access developer tools and the console?
1. go to chrome
2. right click and click inspect
3. go to console

### How do you log information to the console?
console.log("whatever you want here")

### What does unary plus operator do to string representations of integers? eg. +”10”\
it changes the strings into a number\

+"10" = 10\

## What I'm doing tomorrow:

I kinda wanna work on my podcast tomorrow. But I should not get distracted. If I'm doing coding daily it might get a bit repetitive? it's fun and interesting to solve problems but I think doing something different from time to time might be a good idea.

So... 3 hours of The Odin Project tomorrow, and 1 hour planning/thinking about the podcast! 4 hours of deep work tomorrow. Let's go!

With love,\
@ezekielmiles
